INFO30008 Main Prototype 

The main prototype is your expression of your main design concept. It is important therefore that you keep a 
clear record of why and how it has been designed. You should keep your own individual record as a resource to 
inform your final A3 Individual Assignment report. 

The prototype is to be built in Adobe XD or a similar lightweight tool. This gives you maximal flexibility, yet 
provides a powerful resource to express and evaluate your main design concept. 

The are three overall aspects of the main prototype to bear in mind, as follows. 

Depth - deciding the level of detail 

Remember always that your prototype is a method to explore your main design concept. It should bring the 
main design concept to life for selected activities. It should present sufficient realism to engage participants in 
your user-based evaluation, such that they can think and respond as they might for a real system. However, your 
prototype should not be more detailed or complex than necessary; it should not contain features and functions 
that do not express the main design concept or add realism for engagement by users. Part of your challenge in 
the project is to demonstrate judgement in drawing the line clearly between things that are needed in the 
prototype and things that are not. Ultimately this is a matter of interpretation and judgement. There is no right 
level of detail for a prototype, but you do need to be able to show that you have made a careful choice over what 
is included or excluded. As a simple rule: Do not add things without being clear why they are there. 

Scope - deciding the breadth of coverage 

Scope refers to the breadth of your prototype, as opposed to its level of detail. In other words, How much 
functionality is incorporated? or, What range of tasks and activities are supported? Here you should be driven 
by the scenario(s) that you want to enact through your prototype. This will be the action sequence that will be 
studied in both the photo scenario and the user-based evaluation. Work through your chosen scenario(s) and 
construct a list of the different functions or features that your prototype needs. If this list starts to becomes too 
long, or too short, you might need to adjust the chosen scenario(s) to suit. Again, your prototype only needs to 
cover the functions required in the scenario, and you should remove irrelevant elements or screens that have 
somehow emerged in your design work. 

Simulation - constructing seamless interactive sequences 

The technique we are using is to build a 'simulation' of an application that would deliver the main design 
concept. It is a simulation in the sense that it provides a 
(Highlight comment simon
12/09/2023 2:40:02 PM
blank)
sequence of screenshots that would arise if the user 
followed the choices and behaviours that you have scripted into your scenario. It will deliver this sequence, but 
only this sequence. You prototype may have a few different shorter sequences relating to different scenarios. Or 
it might have a longer sequence that covers more than one scenario. You will choose between these options to 
suit your 
(Highlight comment simon
12/09/2023 2:40:15 PM
blank)
design intentions and evaluation goals. 

To design your prototype, walk through your chosen scenario and 
(Highlight comment simon
12/09/2023 2:40:41 PM
blank)
make a list of every unique screen needed to 
simulate the action. Include every change that occurs to the screen. So for example, if the user must highlight an 
item as part of the sequence, include two screens in your list - one with the item un-highlighted, then another 
with the item highlighted. Include changes to the screen that result from actions by the app itself, like a search 
result appearing, or a notification appearing. The functions in Adobe XD that allow you to copy a screen many 
times, will allow you to quickly make a detailed interactive sequence with minor changes from screen to screen. 

To use this technique efficiently, you will first need to develop the various basic screens that will be part of 
your scenario. You need to get these finalised before you start building detailed interactive sequences. Changes 
that you make to basic screen layouts later will need to be redone for every screen in a detailed sequence. So 
spend some time to get your basic screens as you want them first before proceding to the detailed prototyping 
stage. 


