INFO30008 Usability Design Rationale 

Three fundamental questions are addressed in interaction design: Usefulness - Is the design useful in helping 
people achieve their purpose? Usability - Is the design readily usable? Experience - Is the experience of using 
the design generally positive or otherwise desirable for the situation of use? These three questions are inter-
related, but we can distinguish them as different qualities of a designed artefact, and they relate to different 
efforts we make during the design process. Without all three qualities, a design is likely to fail. 

In INFO30008, your projects are well-grounded in usefulness through your initial analysis of a situation of use 
and by addressing the needs and concerns of stakeholders. Experience is addressed through your scenarios, 
especially the photo scenario, where the motivations and experience of fictitious users are considered; and 
aspects of experience can be assessed as part of your User-Based Evaluation. 

In the Usability Design Rationale technique, you are asked to make explicit how you are adddressing the 
usability of your design. You should draw on your knowledge of usability from INFO20004 Usability 
Evaluation Methods. 

To review your knowledge, see the following two key resources: 

• Don Norman, 1988. ‘The Design of Everyday Things’ 
• Jacob Nielsen’s Ten Usability Heuristics 


 

When designing your main prototype, review Don Norman's concepts (visibility, feedback, constraints, 
mapping, affordance, mental model) and Jacob Nielsen's ten heuristics (visibility, match, control, consistency, 
prevention, recognition, flexibility, minimalism, recover, help). Probably, all of these concepts apply to your 
design. Choose the most important principles (3 or 4, or more if you like) that apply to your design, and explore 
associated ways to incorporate enhancements of usability into your prototype screens. 

Keep a good record of how you employ usability principles while you do your design work. Record all ideas 
that you considered and rejected along the way. Record which features or elements in the design were added or 
removed as a result of your reflections. 

In your final A2 report, include a 1000 word account that describes the usability principles that were influential 
in your design, why you chose them, how they were implemented through design details in the prototypes, and 
what you believe the effects were for your final design, with insights from your evaluation. 

 

 


