INFO30008 Design Ideas + Preliminary Prototype 
+ Prototype Interview 

 

These three techniques are closely related and you will carry them out in tandem. 

Ideation: coming up with Design Ideas 

500 word text doc from each group member 

How to come up with a good Design Idea is the million dollar question, to which there is no simple 
answer. In the main design cycle, you will be asked to choose an ideation method to try to generate a 
deeper design concept. The reading below will give you some leads for this – you may want to take a look 
now to get some advanced thoughts going. 

For the Preliminary design cycle, 
(Highlight comment simon
1/09/2023 11:46:30 AM
blank)
focus on the Rich Picture and consider what are the main or most 
interesting concerns of the various stakeholders. Try to identify a ‘paradox’ (Dorst’s term), meaning a 
fundamental problem in the situation that is impeding people from achieving their goals or a positive 
experience. This is often identified by considering how the concerns of different stakeholders clash with 
each other. That is, a design idea is often found by trying to achieve a new and better accommodation 
between the aims and motivations of various stakeholders. 

Generate a simple design idea that attempts to make a definable improvement in the situation. Don’t come 
up with a shopping list of many improvements to be built into a new technology. Concentrate on 
identifying 
(Highlight comment simon
1/09/2023 11:47:09 AM
blank)
one kind of improvement and focus on justifying why it is important. In other words, 
concentrate on generating a simple innovative idea, rather than a comprehensive set of ideas. 

In your 500 words explain the idea, refer to features of your preliminary prototype screens, explain how it 
relates to the Rich Picture and the various concerns of stakeholders, explain and justify how you think it 
might lead to an improvement of the situation, identify risks or potential downsides. 

Reading on Ideation for the Main Design Cycle. Senni Kirjavainen and Katja Hölttä-Otto (2021) 
Deconstruction of idea generation methods into a framework of creativity mechanisms. Journal of 
Mechanical Design. (See Canvas for the article.) 

Preliminary prototypes 

Your preliminary prototype is developed closely with your Design Idea – that is, your prototype is the 
best expression of your Design Idea. 

Keep your preliminary prototype very simple. See the examples illustrated by Wally and Sarah in class 
(from the Case Study of an app for smoking cessation, and the Case Study on the digital zoo). 

Your Preliminary Protoype should be developed in Adobe XD. Make good use of the material resources 
of 
(Highlight comment simon
1/09/2023 11:47:33 AM
blank)
standard screen interfaces – don’t re-invent the wheel. 

Include a splash screen (the entry point for a user) plus 2 or 3 other screens that illustrate the main 
elements of your Design Idea in action. Link them with navigations to make this prototype self-contained 
if not complete. 

Even though it is simple, be sure to spend enough time to refine and clarify your design. Be sure to follow 
a principle of minimalism. In other words, do not include elements or features that are actually expressing 


a different Design Idea, or which are otherwise irrelevant to your Design Idea. Spend as much time 
removing irrelevant aspects of the prototype as you spent adding things. 

Preliminary prototype interview 

The preliminary prototype interview is a 
(Highlight comment simon
1/09/2023 11:47:50 AM
blank)
follow-up interview with a stakeholder where you show them the 
prototype to elicit feedback and insights into your Design Idea. 

Plan your prototype interview in the same way as the first interview: perform it as a pair; take the same 
care over recording reliability; aim to make a transcription of your interview, and identify the main points 
made by the interviewee, etc. 

Plan your questions carefully. Use the prototype to ask about 
(Highlight comment simon
1/09/2023 11:45:41 AM
blank)
whether the idea is promissing. Would this 
stakeholder be curious enough to use and explore this technology if it was available? What information or 
features would they expect to be included, or not included, and why? Who would use it and where and 
when? Make sure your questions are open-ended and that you do not lead your interviewee to give the 
answers that you expect. You may get surprising answers to these questions –if you do then you have 
made good use of this technique. 

Note: This prototype interview will be short in comparison to the first interview. It is 
(Highlight comment simon
1/09/2023 11:46:03 AM
blank)
NOT meant as an 
evaluation of the prototype, because you do not have a complete idea yet. It will give you insights about 
your Design Idea, but equally important, it will give you further insight into your understanding of the 
situation of use and the motivations and demands of the various stakeholders. 

 


