A2. GROUP REPORT  
INFO30008 Interactive Technology Project 
EVALUATION OF DIGITAL PROTOTYPE  (MAIN DESIGN CYCLE) 
  
Due: 5:00pm Monday of Week 14 (30th October 2023) 
Worth:  20% of subject total mark 
Length:   4000 words 
Submit through LMS 
Each group to submit ONE copy (choose one person to submit for your group) 
  
What to submit 
Your report should contain the following: 
• Include a coversheet with the names of your group – and include your names and group number on page 1 of your report. 

• Executive Summary that clearly explains what is in your report and summarises the overall outcomes (200 words) 

• The activity outputs from your main design cycle (Weeks 6-12): 



Ideation process 
 Text doc 500 words + diagrams 
 a group output 
 

Main design concept 
 Text doc 500 words + diagrams 
 a group output 
 

Review of relevant technologies  
 Text doc 500 words (each student) 
 one from each student 
 

Main prototype development 
 Your chosen format 
 a group output 
 

Usability design rationale  
 Text doc 1000 words 
 a group output 
 

Personas  
 Text doc 300 words (each student) 
 one from each student 
 

Scenarios as text 
 Text doc 500 words (each student) 
 one from each student 
 

Photo scenario (ie storyboard) 
 4 to 12 frame storyboard 
 a group output 
 

Observational evaluation of main prototype  
 Your chosen format of evidence 
 a group output 
 

Design history of your process 
 A2 poster, template to be provided 
 a group output 
 

Demonstration of prototype in action 
 Narrated 2 min video 
 a group output 
 

• A conclusion of your main findings (500 words) 

• References 


  
Assessment criteria 
The criteria being applied to all assignment work in this subject are: 
• Appropriate and creative execution of techniques  

• Clarity and coherence of evidence, explanation, arguments, findings and conclusions 

• Quality of the expression of design thinking and design process  


How to reference sources 
To refer to articles that you wish to cite when writing your report, use the Harvard style; as used in the journal article and academic book chapters. Look at the readings listed in this subject as examples. 
 
As you write your report, refer to the articles as you need to by citing the author family name and date.  
For example:  
'Juran (1964) has found that ...'   or   'Swiss (1992), however, argued that ...'.  
If there are two authors, give both names: 'Smith & Chang (2018) believed that ...'.  
If there are more than two authors, you can shorten it to: 'Vaucanson et al (2020) reported a study of ....'. 
 
At the end of your article provide a Reference Section that lists ALL of the articles that you cite in your report. Put these in author-name alphabetical order. Take care to format each reference in the way that it is done in academic articles. 
 
https://students.unimelb.edu.au/academic-skills/explore-our-resources/referencing 
  
Academic Integrity 
Take care to ensure that you follow the principles of academic integrity. 
 
Your submitted work must be entirely your own. Be sure that you do not submit work done by another student OR material taken from a source. If unsure ask Wally and see the link below … 
 
http://academicintegrity.unimelb.edu.au/ 
  
Late Penalties 
Assignments which are submitted after the due date and time, will receive a penalty of 10% of the total marks available per working day late, up to a maximum of five days. Assignments submitted after five days will not be marked and a grade of zero will be recorded. 
 

